# Earthquaker
QuakeSafe 
An Application for Earthquakes 
Team – The Phenomenals 
The team comprises of three members: 
Prashant Khandelwal, BITS Pilani, M.Sc.(Hons.) Mathematics and B.E.(Hons.) Computer Science, 2021 - Prashant is an experienced application developer. He has developed various live apps for our college festivals. 
Naman Deep Srivastava, BITS Pilani, M.Sc.(Hons.) Mathematics and B.E.(Hons.) Computer Science, 2021 - Naman has a two-year experience in community welfare and is also experienced in machine learning and application development. 
Akshat Baranwal, BITS Pilani, B.E.(Hons.) Electronics and Instrumentation, 2020- Akshat is an active Microsoft student partner, and is interested in social services and thus is interested in make use of technology for the welfare of the society. 
Our team ‘The Phenomenals’ participated in Microsoft Codefundo++ 2018 where we emerged as the First Runners Up at College level. Working on this project taught us a great deal about team work, work division and handling pressure situations. After Codefundo++, we thought that our idea had potential enough to participate in Imagine Cup and this led us to further work together towards improving our project. 
The Concept:
Earthquakes are the most expensive natural disasters humans face. A strong earthquake in the wrong place at the wrong time can cause great financial damage and cost tens of thousands of human lives. People panic during such tragedies and randomly follow the mob which is sometimes deadly as they may not be heading in the right direction and are always in need of an alternative source to confirm the safest nearby location. Also, people try to know the well-being of their dear ones through whatever platform is available to them, but the use of such platforms by others about whom we want to know is not guaranteed during such a situation. 
There are many solutions available online for finding the safe places consisting of only the open regions in google maps but we all know that open regions like parks, grounds are not the only safe locations when it comes to an earthquake, keeping in mind the unavailability, absence and distance of such open locations from our current location. 
As in the case of metropolitan cities, we don’t get to see open areas a lot. So, there is a need to shift our focus from grounds and parks to safer locations in case of metropolitan cities. 
The major cause of injuries during an earthquake is the collapse of buildings. So, if somehow we are able to find the danger radius of a building, i.e., upto what distance from it people shouldn’t be there, it would be a great lead towards saving the lives of people. The danger radius of building can be approximated keeping in mind various factors, the most important one being height. Now, once we get the height we’ll be able to approximate the danger radius of a building. 
We have acquired the height data of a specific region from Microsoft US Building Footprints data, that is of the Delaware region in US. 
Prototype: 
An android application that will help a user in identifying the nearest and the safest place where he should move in order to stay safe from any casualty during an earthquake and will help him to connect and know the current safety status of his friends and family members. 
Target Audience or Market: The application would be highly beneficial for and would target people living in earthquake prone countries like Indonesia, Turkey, Mexico, Nepal and India. 
Future Scope of the Project: Offline Capabilities: The application would dynamically update the nearest and the safest location in the background and in case of any network failure, the latest calculated result will still be available for the user. The application will identify if the user has gone offline and in case of an exceptionally identified safe spot, the user will be notified through an SMS, the directions of that spot. 
Personas Akshat lives in a three-storeyed building in an earthquake prone zone in India. He has very few open regions around him due to urbanization. He can use this application in the event of an earthquake to find safe locations near him. 
Feedback 
Question Asked: How is your application better/different from other existing apps or products for finding safe regions on the map? 
Response: Our application focuses on not only the open regions but also considers places that aren’t open but are safe in case of dense metropolitan areas. 
How it works: A user just has to open the application and he will be able to find the nearest safe spot during an earthquake. Users can save the contact of their loved ones and in case of any mis-happening, they will have the facility of marking themselves safe so that he will be able to know their safety status during an earthquake. Also, the user will have the facility to give special status to some of his connections and he would be notified automatically as soon as those connections have marked themselves safe. (An SMS will be received in case of offline mode) In the event of an earthquake or any other natural disaster, a great concern is network fluctuations and connectivity problems. Our application will consider such problems and will try to provide a best possible solution on the basis of available resources (such as a local connection of devices in proximity could contribute to the offline algorithm, eg. - getting GPS data.) 
Our application uses azure web services, azure SQL server and azure machine learning model (neural network regression). Azure web services and sql server have been used for hosting the backend of the android application. Machine learning web services have been used for integrating the machine learning model with the application as a web service. 
Real world problems can be easily solved if appropriate training data is available, but we know that acquiring the data is a tedious and expensive task. There is a lot of unorganized data available online which can be of good use if properly extracted and organized. Microsoft building height data is available online and we used it to calculate the danger radius. 
Core Technologies Google direction API, Google maps API, Android SDK and Azure. 
We have deployed the backend of the application on Azure. The backend comprises of PHP part and SQL Database both implemented using Azure web services and Azure SQL Database respectively. The application also uses Azure Application Services to host some of the services of the app. Direction API has been used for navigation from the current location of user to the safest spot
